src/content/posts/reflections-on-a-github-contribution-graph.mdx, before:

---
title: "Reflections on a Github Contribution Graph"
description: "My struggle with work-life balance in the tech world, discussing impostor syndrome and my resolve to reinvigorate my passion for personal projects."
image: "/images/posts/reflections-on-a-github-contribution-graph.webp"
pubDate: "June 6, 2023"
expectedReadTime: 5
tags: ["personal"]
draft: false
---

Ever been on a roller coaster that just doesn't seem to stop? Yeah, that's been my life lately.

Take a peek at my [Github contribution graph](https://github.com/Nsttt) and you'll find a barren landscape. My once somewhat vibrant field of green squares, each marking a day of my life dedicated to coding, is now just a digital ghost town.

Why the sudden change in scenery, you ask? Life happened. And not just the usual life-stuff, but a _gigantic_, heaping helping of it. I'm talking about the kind of work that makes your plate look like a Thanksgiving dinner for giants.

Here's the deal. I’ve been diving headfirst into a sea of projects that have stretched me to my limits. The responsibilities have been numerous, the deadlines merciless, and there's a whole battalion of folks counting on me to do my bit so they can do theirs.

On top of that, there's the silent weight of my own ambition. I'm not just in this for the thrill of the game. I've set my sights on **loftier goals**. I'm aiming to climb the career ladder, not just for the view from the top, but to hoist my team and my company up there with me. I'm striving to mold my colleagues into better engineers, support my company's rise to the top, and carve out a niche in the tech world where we can proudly stake our claim.

But, with everything spinning around me like a tornado of responsibilities, something had to give. And looking at my desolate Github graph, it’s clear what took the hit.

It's not a sight for sore eyes, but it's the wake-up call I needed. Looking at my barren field was like catching my reflection and not recognizing the person staring back. It was a reality check that I had been so swept up in the hurricane of work that I’d lost touch with a vital part of myself.

But here's the thing: I’m not about to let the story end here. This isn't a tale of defeat, but a call to action.

## Lost and Found: My Love for Open Sourcing

Picture this: You're standing in a room filled with tech maestros. The air is buzzing with energy, ideas are whizzing around, and the sheer talent in the room is nothing short of jaw-dropping.

But let's rewind a bit, to a time when my enthusiasm for open sourcing was running on fumes. Why, you ask? Two words: **impostor syndrome**. Yeah, that sneaky little voice that whispers, "_You don't belong here_" every time you’re in the presence of super talented colleagues. When you're navigating the vast tech sea, it's easy to feel like a tiny fish, completely out of your depth. And let me tell you, it's a crummy feeling.

Now, fast forward to JSDay at Canarias. You might have heard of it - it's only one of the coolest tech conferences out there! But for me, this wasn’t just a conference. It was the life-raft that pulled me out of my self-doubt and put the wind back in my open sourcing sails.

Why? Because I had the chance to rub shoulders with some of the biggest names in the industry. I'm talking about the likes of **[Kent](https://twitter.com/kentcdodds)**, **[Tejas](https://twitter.com/TejasKumar_)**, [**Aleksandra**](https://twitter.com/aleksandrasays), **[Sandrina](https://twitter.com/a_sandrina_p)**, and my T3 community buddy, **Stoyko**. Just being in their presence was like mainlining a hefty dose of motivation.

Their passion, their creativity, their drive, it was all so contagious. It was as if they reached into me and reignited the dormant flame of my love for open sourcing. I saw in them a reflection of who I used to be and who I knew I could be again.

So this post? Consider it a massive shout-out to this stellar gang. A heartfelt thanks for being my guiding light in the foggy sea of self-doubt. Their brilliance not only lit up the path but also sparked a fire within me, reminding me of my love for open sourcing and why I chose this path in the first place.

## The Comeback Plan

Alright, let's switch gears and talk about my life calendar from [WaitButWhy](https://waitbutwhy.com/2014/05/life-weeks.html).

![life-calendar](/images/posts/life-calendar.webp)

To some, it might seem a bit grim. Imagine a calendar filled with tiny boxes for each week of your entire life. It’s like a visual timeline from your birth date to... well, let's just say a very, very long time from now. Some of my friends look at it and get cold sweats. But for me, it's more like a treasure map.

Yeah, seeing your whole life laid out might freak some folks out. But me? I see stories. Each little box is a week of wins, losses, lessons, and adventures. It's like a diary, but instead of "_Dear Diary_" entries, there are tick marks for every week I've lived.

For me, it's not a countdown to doom. It's a progress bar. It's a tool that shows me where I've been and where I'm going. When I hit a slump, like these past two months, it's a kick in the pants. It's a wake-up call saying, "_Hey, get back in the game and back to work!_"

So yeah, my life calendar isn’t a ticking time bomb of anxiety for me. It’s more like a coach, a cheerleader, and a reality check all rolled into one. It keeps me focused, driven, and excited for what's coming next.

First on the agenda: getting my tasks in order. I mean seriously noting them down, prioritizing them. It's a simple trick, but it takes the load off my mind and keeps things running smoothly.

Next, I need to give my personal projects the love they deserve. No more endless idea scribbles that lead nowhere. I’m talking about getting down to business, committing to see things through from start to finish, even when the going gets tough. It's high time my projects stop gathering dust at the “just started” phase.

As I set off on this new journey, I’m excited to find that balance again – between life and work, discipline and freedom. It’s not going to be easy, but then again, what’s life without a little challenge, eh?

Commit message:

Better final touches and final message

src/content/posts/reflections-on-a-github-contribution-graph.mdx, after:

---
title: "Reflections on a Github Contribution Graph"
description: "My struggle with work-life balance in the tech world, discussing impostor syndrome and my resolve to reinvigorate my passion for personal projects."
image: "/images/posts/reflections-on-a-github-contribution-graph.webp"
pubDate: "June 6, 2023"
expectedReadTime: 5
tags: ["personal"]
draft: false
---

Ever been on a roller coaster that just doesn't seem to stop? Yeah, that's been my life lately.

Take a peek at my [Github contribution graph](https://github.com/Nsttt) and you'll find a barren landscape. My once somewhat vibrant field of green squares, each marking a day of my life dedicated to coding, is now just a digital ghost town.

Why the sudden change in scenery, you ask? Life happened. And not just the usual life-stuff, but a _gigantic_, heaping helping of it. I'm talking about the kind of work that makes your plate look like a Thanksgiving dinner for giants.

Here's the deal. I’ve been diving headfirst into a sea of projects that have stretched me to my limits. The responsibilities have been numerous, the deadlines merciless, and there's a whole battalion of folks counting on me to do my bit so they can do theirs.

On top of that, there's the silent weight of my own ambition. I'm not just in this for the thrill of the game. I've set my sights on **loftier goals**. I'm aiming to climb the career ladder, not just for the view from the top, but to hoist my team and my company up there with me. I'm striving to mold my colleagues into better engineers, support my company's rise to the top, and carve out a niche in the tech world where we can proudly stake our claim.

But, with everything spinning around me like a tornado of responsibilities, something had to give. And looking at my desolate Github graph, it’s clear what took the hit.

It's not a sight for sore eyes, but it's the wake-up call I needed. Looking at my barren field was like catching my reflection and not recognizing the person staring back. It was a reality check that I had been so swept up in the hurricane of work that I’d lost touch with a vital part of myself.

But here's the thing: I’m not about to let the story end here. This isn't a tale of defeat, but a call to action.

## Lost and Found: My Love for Open Sourcing

Picture this: You're standing in a room filled with tech maestros. The air is buzzing with energy, ideas are whizzing around, and the sheer talent in the room is nothing short of jaw-dropping.

But let's rewind a bit, to a time when my enthusiasm for open sourcing was running on fumes. Why, you ask? Two words: **impostor syndrome**. Yeah, that sneaky little voice that whispers, "_You don't belong here_" every time you’re in the presence of super talented colleagues. When you're navigating the vast tech sea, it's easy to feel like a tiny fish, completely out of your depth. And let me tell you, it's a crummy feeling.

Now, fast forward to JSDay at Canarias. You might have heard of it - it's only one of the coolest tech conferences out there! But for me, this wasn’t just a conference. It was the life-raft that pulled me out of my self-doubt and put the wind back in my open sourcing sails.

Why? Because I had the chance to rub shoulders with some of the biggest names in the industry. I'm talking about the likes of **[Kent](https://twitter.com/kentcdodds)**, **[Tejas](https://twitter.com/TejasKumar_)**, [**Aleksandra**](https://twitter.com/aleksandrasays), **[Sandrina](https://twitter.com/a_sandrina_p)**, and my T3 community buddy, **Stoyko**. Just being in their presence was like mainlining a hefty dose of motivation.

Their passion, their creativity, their drive, it was all so contagious. It was as if they reached into me and reignited the dormant flame of my love for open sourcing. I saw in them a reflection of who I used to be and who I knew I could be again.

So this post? Consider it a massive shout-out to this stellar gang. A heartfelt thanks for being my guiding light in the foggy sea of self-doubt. Their brilliance not only lit up the path but also sparked a fire within me, reminding me of my love for open sourcing and why I chose this path in the first place.

## The Comeback Plan

Alright, let's switch gears and talk about my life calendar from [WaitButWhy](https://waitbutwhy.com/2014/05/life-weeks.html).

![life-calendar](/images/posts/life-calendar.webp)

To some, it might seem a bit grim. Imagine a calendar filled with tiny boxes for each week of your entire life. It’s like a visual timeline from your birth date to... well, let's just say a very, very long time from now. Some of my friends look at it and get cold sweats. But for me, it's more like a treasure map.

Yeah, seeing your whole life laid out might freak some folks out. But me? I see stories. Each little box is a week of wins, losses, lessons, and adventures. It's like a diary, but instead of "_Dear Diary_" entries, there are tick marks for every week I've lived.

For me, it's not a countdown to doom. It's a progress bar. It's a tool that shows me where I've been and where I'm going. When I hit a slump, like these past two months, it's a kick in the pants. It's a wake-up call saying, "_Hey, get back in the game and back to work!_"

So yeah, my life calendar isn’t a ticking time bomb of anxiety for me. It’s more like a coach, a cheerleader, and a reality check all rolled into one. It keeps me focused, driven, and excited for what's coming next.

First on the agenda: it's time to get all my tasks in order. To help me do this, I'll be leveraging a to-do list app. It's a powerful tool that can instantly help me get a grip on my daily responsibilities, allowing me to jot down every task, big or small, and arrange them based on their priority. It may seem rudimentary, but it's a game changer. By having everything written down and easily accessible, I can alleviate the mental load, reduce stress, and keep my workflow moving seamlessly.

Next up, I'm reigniting my passion for personal projects. In the past, they've been subjected to an endless cycle of idea generation, scribbles, and half-hearted beginnings, without ever reaching the final line. This ends now. It's time for each project to move beyond the "just started" phase and come into its own. I'll be fully committing to each initiative, treating them with the seriousness they deserve, and seeing them through from inception to completion, no matter the hurdles along the way.

I'm also carving out time for personal development. I'm going to dedicate a portion of my day to reading, specifically books that can help me expand my knowledge and better understand my field. Currently, I have "The Personal MBA" by Josh Kaufman and "Staff Engineering" on my reading list.

## A final message

To everyone reading this who might be feeling overwhelmed, stuck, or just looking for a way to regain control over their life and work:

**Remember, you're not alone.**

We all hit bumps in the road, face times when our passion falters, and find our task lists spiraling out of control. But, there are tools, procedures and strategies we can use to reclaim our lives and reignite our passions.

The journey of getting our tasks in order, reigniting our passions, and striking that elusive work-life balance starts with a single step. Start small, perhaps by writing down your tasks in a tool like Microsoft To Do or setting aside time to read each day. The important thing is to take that first step, and before you know it, you'll be well on your way to getting things done and finding fulfillment in your work again.

Remember, life is filled with ups and downs, and it's okay to falter. It's the getting back up that truly counts.

So, let's get back up, together. Let's get started, and let's get things done.
